# NeuroCare

Neurodegenerative diseases affect up to 50 million people worldwide, yet diagnostic and assistive tools remain largely inaccessible and unaffordable. To address this unmet need, an accessible and cost-effective diagnostic and assistive system was developed through machine learning and augmented reality methods. Machine learning algorithms were integrated into a mobile application that implemented the Boston Cookie Theft Picture Task and analyzed linguistic and prosodic features to recognize Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease with a 91.1% and 92.3% accuracy, respectively. If a neurodegenerative disease was detected, the mobile application would guide caregivers to set up a complementary augmented reality headset as an assistive device to support patients with deteriorating procedural and episodic memory. More specifically, through the combined mobile app and headset system, caregivers can select routine activities that patients require assistance with. The headset then provides necessary real-time guidance to patients interacting with other people and their environment through augmented reality elements. This system was deemed successful as it encompasses accurate detection and accessible and intuitive assistance through the use of machine learning and augmented reality. This system has also demonstrated the potential to expand beyond neurodegenerative diseases and can be implemented to detect and assist developmental and learning disabilities which afflict an additional 10% of the global population. 

